[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> Joe, I have a fun fact for you.
>> Go on.
>> Are you ready? Yeah.
>> Okay. So, Delaware has a population of
about 1.05
million. A little over a million.
>> Okay.
>> It's one of the least populous states.
Yeah.
>> I think it has fewer people than a lot
of big cities in the US
>> for sure.
>> However,
>> Delaware has 2.1 million businesses
registered in the state. So, basically
two businesses for every person.
>> This is a legit fun fact. This is like a
legit I did not know this. I mean, I
knew that it was not a very big state
population wise. I know that so many
corporations or businesses or whatever
uh incorporate in Delaware. But this
sort of 2:1 ratio, excellent fun fact,
Tracy, well done.
>> Yes. For your next dinner party, you can
shout that one out. But I mean,
obviously maybe you could argue that
Delawarians are just phenomenally
entrepreneurial. But as you mentioned,
no, as you mentioned,
>> no more than any I'm not dismissing
them. I just know that that's not really
what's going on,
>> right? There's something else going on
here which is that Delaware has become
the de facto state for companies
incorporating.
>> Yeah, this is like the main thing that
we know about Delaware and we don't
really I mean chicken farms the
chickens, right? Not the the chickens.
But you don't hear much about Delaware
except typically when there is some sort
of corporate fight playing out in its
courts and of course it has a dedicated
court system for corporate fights and so
forth. There's some been prominent
examples over the years where we learn
about what the chancery is and then I
forget what the chancery is or where
that word comes from but people seem to
like their uh simplistic streamlined
legal system for corporate things and it
seems to have paid off reasonably well.
>> People seem to like it but that might be
changing. So you mentioned corporate
fights. We had a very prominent example
of this relatively recently when there
was the court fight over Elon Musk's
compensation at Tesla and eventually
Elon just said, you know, I'm going to
pick up my company and move it to Texas
and incorporate there. And in fact, we
are seeing a few examples of companies
choosing to move away from Delaware and
to places like Texas or Nevada. And I
know this isn't maybe a top of mind news
development for many people right now.
There's a lot going on.
>> Yeah.
>> But I think it's really interesting.
It's kind of slowm moving and it does
have implications for shareholder
rights.
>> Totally. I actually think it's a very
important relevant topic and I'll say
this is the reason why which is that in
a sense a legal system is this network
effect and people respect the legal
system and even if maybe there are
decisions that go against them they're
like okay this is a high quality legal
system. it is very hard to rebuild that
somewhere else. It also is the sort of
thing that if there is some pull
elsewhere then it's interesting to see
what does it take to pry entities away
from this network where there is years
and years and thousands and thousands of
uh decisions upon which to build
something resembling a shared law. And
so, you know, when I think about the
United States, when I think about these
bigger questions about how do you move
dollars, how do you move entities,
industries to other jurisdictions that
are maybe younger and don't have the
same level of historical juristprudence,
maybe there is a microcosm, a story to
be told about the Delaware history, how
it built up, and if there are any
threats to it over the medium term.
>> Absolutely. Very well put. So, I am
happy to say we have the perfect guest.
We're going to be speaking with
Professor Anne Lipton. She is a law
professor at the University of Colorado
and Lawrence W. Demouth chair. So an
thank you so much for joining us.
>> Thank you so much for the invite.
>> I'll start with the obvious question
which is how did we end up with Delaware
as the deacto place for corporate
incorporation? Why Delaware?
>> Because Delaware actually strategized
that it wanted to attract
incorporations. And this was back in oh
the late 1800s, early 1900s. A number of
states actually thought that they could
make money by having corporations
incorporate in their state and pay fees.
You could actually open a newspaper at
that time and see advertisements for
come incorporate in Xstate. And Delaware
made a conscious decision to make its
state and its law friendly to
corporations that wanted to incorporate
there. So among other things at the
time, one of the main concerns of
businesses was that corporate law would
be used politically, that the rules
would change to effectuate some kind of
political policy. So Delaware adopted a
constitutional amendment that its judges
would have to be politically balanced.
So you couldn't have more than half uh
more than a bare majority of one party
or the other. So for a seven member
court, no more than four can be a member
of one party or another. They also put a
constitutional amendment that any
changes to the corporate code required a
twothirds vote of the legislature. So
trying to insulate their corporate law
from political pressures and then they
just made their corporate law very
flexible and very manager friendly.
Managers could kind of do what they
wanted with it and it just sort of took
off from there.
>> This is really fascinating this idea of
creating the corporate legal system in
this sort of glass enclosure through
which the political system cannot break.
And this is a theme that seems to come
up over and over again. We talk about it
when we talk about the Federal Reserve
and its nominal or de facto
independence. This came up when we talk
to the Alaska sovereign wealth fund guys
and the difficulty that the political
system has in accessing the corn seed,
so to speak. talk to us a little bit
more about the structures in place and
how strong they are to insulate the
court system from politics and how
durable and thick those glass walls are.
Yeah. So, they can't insulate the court
from politics in the sense of the
legislature acting and so forth. And
that's actually what we've just been
seeing. But they are fairly insulated
from partisan politics. Partisan
politics doesn't play out in the same
way that we would understand it in other
parts
>> of the country or other areas. But so
the idea here, well, first of all, I
mean, one thing to note though is that
Delaware is obviously it's very blue
state voting behavior and judges do
things other than decide corporate
cases. We do forget that, but they do in
fact have other things to decide. But
still, the judges are politically
balanced in order to benefit this
corporate system. So what happens with
the way law is made in Delaware,
corporate laws made, is that it actually
doesn't really come from the
legislature, which really most of the
legislature isn't, they're not corporate
experts. They don't know much about
corporate law necessarily. They're just
legislators. So what happens is there's
the Delaware State Bar Association has a
corporation law section and they
actually generate the proposed statutes
on the theory that they can do it in a
sort of nonpartisan very technocratic
way and then the legislature tends to
sort of rubber stamp the stuff that
comes out of the corporation law
section. So, you know, Joe mentioned
that sort of network effect earlier and
I think this is really important in law
especially because a lot of legal
battles are based on precedent, right?
And so we have Delaware as the deacto
incorporation state and decades and
decades of precedent for judges and
lawyers to actually look at. How does
that sort of I guess precedent or first
mover advantage help Delaware? Well,
it's always been assumed that that would
help Delaware because you would have the
statute and you have a decades of
precedent so that companies would kind
of know how questions would be answered
if they came up. So, there are a lot of
areas where other states you just simply
do not have information on like how a
court would treat particular kinds of
claims or particular kinds of disputes.
Some of the obvious things are things
like activist takeovers or or proxy
contests and takeover defenses because
we know how that looks in Delaware
because Delaware incorporates most of
the public companies where you have
those kinds of fights. We don't know how
that looks in other states because you
don't tend to have as many activist
situations in those other states. So
that's always thought to be sort of an
advantage of Delaware that everything
plays out there. And most other states,
they very often look to Delaware when
they're deciding their own corporate
law. Sometimes they contrast their
corporate law with Delaware, but
Delaware is always kind of where they
look to deal with these questions. And
that's always considered to be a real
advantage of Delaware. You at least know
what's going to happen. But it also
means that because this is case law,
it's mostly not in the or hasn't been
mostly in the statute. It's judgeby
judge decisions. And that can also mean
that sometimes it's sort of hard to
penetrate because it's really you've got
to read this decision. Well, don't
forget this other decision and don't
forget this decision too. And that can
be sort of hard to figure out if you're
just looking at it for the first time.
>> Yeah. I'm really interested in this
tension, right? Because in theory, okay,
you write down laws on paper and they're
all visible and say, okay, this is
consistent. We know what's going to
happen. But also, decisions are made by
judges and people dispute them.
Otherwise, they wouldn't have to have
cases in the first part. if uh if judges
didn't have to exercise some sort of
agency. How do the judges feel about
their own responsibility
when deciding these cases to think about
consistency or the underlying deep
principles of Delaware corporate law and
the long-term implications for the state
of Delaware and for the state of when
they make their decisions?
>> Yeah. So, there's a tension there. So
you just identified like a tension a
tension between the state of Delaware
versus general corporate theory and
corporate law. And I think you don't
become a judge and you don't go into
this area unless you really do
appreciate the law and enjoy it and and
have I mean the Delaware judges are
extremely thoughtful about corporate law
and what the right answer is and how
corporations should work. They don't
always have exactly the same theories,
but they definitely have a point of view
and they care very much about how
corporate law operates. But, and you
know, this is where some of the tension
is today. If corporate boards are
unhappy with their decisions over and
over and over again, then Delaware may
lose incorporations to other states. And
how that plays out between sort of
fidelity to a vision of what corporate
law should be, coupled with the
straightup reality that if managers are
unhappy and incorporate elsewhere,
Delaware doesn't have doesn't get to do
much anymore. That's a tension that's
been playing out for just as long as
Delaware's been incorporating companies.
I mean that's always I don't think
judges are usually consciously making
that decisions based on that or they're
certainly trying not to but that tension
is always present and has been present
in the past.
>> Before we get to why companies some
companies seem unhappy with Delaware at
the moment I'm going to go ahead and ask
Joe's classic question whenever this
comes up which is what is a chancery
court?
>> Well it's just the name for the Delaware
courts that hear corporate cases. So I
mean the f this is a very technical
legal point but historically there were
two types of courts in the world. There
were the courts of law and the courts of
equity. The courts of law followed sort
of these stringent rules and the courts
of equity were literally sort of about
fairness and dealing with what's the
right answer and doing justice as
opposed to according to technical rules
that were laid down. And so there was
two separate courts and that was from
England and that was true in the United
States. And then the United States in
the 30s or so melded the two courts at
the federal level and most states did
the same. So there would just be one
court that heard all the cases, law
cases and equity cases. But Delaware
never did that. So it still has this
separate court of law and the court of
equity which is the chancery court. So
its historical origins are essentially
rooted in this idea of fairness and
commanding people to take the proper
actions. And it doesn't sit with a jury.
The cases are heard just by the judges.
The judges find facts would otherwise
juries would do that, but the judges
find facts in the Delaware Court of
Chancery. They're very expert. They are,
you know, they're all drawn from
corporate practice before they get on
the bench. And that's what they do. I
mean, they hear other things besides
corporate cases. Other things fall into
this category of equity, but the main
thing obviously is the corporate cases.
[Music]
So, I want to eventually get into the
Elon Pay case and maybe get your read on
it, etc. But before we do that, you
mentioned that this is nothing new. Some
of these there are these longstanding
questions about the Delaware and its
persistence. Can you give us a little
history or what are you know what were
the Elon cases pre the Elon cases that
sort of maybe had people questioning the
sort of durability of the Delaware
system
>> the long long long ago before Elon
>> Elon Avant
>> it's it's in the 80s it was that long
ago it was the 80s there were two big
incidents so one case of like these are
the basic law cases that you learn if
you're in any kind of basic corporate
law class so one case was called Ben
Gorgum Basically, a company was selling
itself and they settled on a price and
shareholders sued claiming that the
board didn't take proper care in setting
this price. Nobody suggested they were
acting in bad faith, but they just
didn't take the time to make sure that
they got the best price. And the
Delaware Supreme Court agreed and it
held that the directors could be held
personally liable for damages for
essentially not getting the right price
for the company. And that terrified
boards because these boards could be
acting in good faith and still could be
I mean not selling the company for
enough. That's serious money and
damages. So Delaware amended its
corporate code so that companies can now
add a provision to their charter that
says directors will not be held liable
for monetary damages for negligence. And
that really also boosted companies
incorporating in Delaware after that.
And by now every state has adopted a
similar thing. But at the time that was
done essentially because they knew that
they had just scared the be Jesus out of
boards. And another issue that came up,
this was also in the 80s, was during the
hostile takeover era. This was like, you
know, the deal decade. There were lots
and lots of hostile takeover attempts.
And when there's a hostile takeover
attempt, boards put up barriers, usually
shareholder rights, plants, poison
pills, to prevent hostile takeovers. And
there was a real question as to how far
boards could go to fend off a hostile
acquirer, even if the shareholders
wanted this deal. And at first, the
Delaware courts were pretty strict about
it. They after a certain point, they
were saying, "Look, you got to let
shareholders decide. The board can't
just block beneficial proposals to buy
the company if the shareholders want
it." And once again, there were threats
to that companies would leave. They
would leave Delaware so that they could
protect against hostile takeover
attempts. And at that point, the
Delaware Supreme Court backed off. It
adopted new standards that allowed much
more deference to boards when they are
fighting off hostile takeover attempts.
>> So, fast forward to today, I just want
to make sure we have our priors correct.
We love
>> We love establishing our priors on this
podcast.
>> But, you know, those examples aside,
does it feel like nowadays there is
perhaps more discussion of alternatives
to Delaware or more companies that seem
to be moving away?
>> Yeah. So, I don't know if statistically
the numbers really move the needle.
We've seen definitely some high-profile
announcements of companies planning to
move, but we just don't have enough data
right now to see whether this is a
serious like actual exodus. But there's
definitely a lot more discussion and
there's definitely a lot more boards
thinking or lawyers thinking they have
to council boards whether you want to
incorporate in Delaware when before that
wouldn't wouldn't even have been a
question. So, that's definitely
something that's happening.
>> Well, why? So, what is it? If a lawyer
is counseling boards, don't just because
I, you know, I've known people who have
launched startups at times and the idea
of incorporation in Delaware. That was
just obviously what you did, right? You
just did it right away. Absolutely. But
so what is it that a lawyer might say,
well, maybe take a few beats and think
about this. What has actually changed
that's caused that? Well, Delaware
understand has fought back and it's
changed its law very recently to sort of
fight this off. But essentially the
issue most of the issue is shareholder
liability or liability to shareholders
and vulnerability to a shareholder
lawsuit and most of that vulnerability
is vulnerability to a shareholder
lawsuit over conflicted transactions.
That's the main headline thing. There
are a few other issues that have come
up, but the main headline thing is
boards feeling as though Delaware has
made it too easy for shareholders to sue
over conflicted transactions.
>> What's a conflicted transaction? Just so
we know these terms. What is an example
of one either figurative or actual?
>> Uh actual Tesla buying Solar City. Elon
Musk was on both sides of that
transaction. He's on the board of Tesla
and he's on the board of and running
Solar City. And so Tesla is using its
resources to buy out Elon Musk company.
So that's a classic conflict
transaction.
>> That actually reminds me, just speaking
of Elon, but how big a deal was Tesla
moving from Delaware to Texas? Because
we talk about this network effect. Is it
the case that one high-profile company
moves and suddenly all these other
companies are like, "We're going to do
that, too."
>> Yeah, I think it's a big deal. I mean,
first of all, you know, we all know that
it was inspired by the that move was
inspired by the pay package case, but I
think some of the grumblings about
Delaware are broader. But I think that
was a big deal if for no other reason
than Elon Musk is very admired by a lot
of CEOs, a lot of venture capitalists, a
lot of Silicon Valley. They look to him
as a real role model. And so when he
publicly announces that he's had it with
Delaware and shows that it's possible to
take a public company and gets
shareholder support for moving out of
Delaware, even if he is special and he
has a particular relationship with the
shareholders that may not be shared by
other companies, I think that's the kind
of thing that has boards thinking
putting it on the table.
>> Let's talk about the pay package deal. I
don't know. Like, look, I I really don't
know much about the law or anything
about this stuff at all. But I say, but
I say, "Hey, this was the compensation
package he agreed to. Who is this judge
to say that he can't get paid?"
Intuitively to me, it seems outrageous.
Why is this judge cancelling his pay
package? But this is my dumb guy just
reading a head. I didn't even read the
article, probably. So, why don't you I'm
being honest here. So why don't you tell
me as someone who actually understands
this stuff how we should read what that
case was all about.
>> Okay. So remember the issue here is
conflicted transactions.
>> Yeah.
>> Musk's pay was a standard conflicted
transaction in the sense that the board
was deciding what it was going to pay
its CEO which is very much well within
the board discretion. But the board
included Elon Musk and his brother. So
therefore this was your classic conflict
transaction. It was a board A lot of
CEOs are on their board.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Keep going.
>> So, under Delaware law, the general rule
is a conflicted transaction will get
close scrutiny by a court unless it's
cleansed. And how do you cleanse it? You
put an independent decision maker in the
mix and then the court will say, "Well,
I'll just defer to the independent
decision maker." And you have two
options for an independent decision
maker. The unconlicted board members or
the shareholders. And usually, I mean,
this doesn't happen. You have to
understand how unusual a case was.
Usually that's more than sufficient. You
have the unconlicted board members
decide the pay or you have the
disinterested shareholders vote on the
pay and at that point Delaware says I'm
out you guys. You God bless. The problem
here was that the unconflicted board
members were not unconlicted. So they
were all like he stocks Tesla's board
with people who are basically his
bestest buds. And they created a
committee that was supposed to be the
independent members of the committee.
and the committee still had close ties
to Musk. And then the committee formed a
working group that would really do the
compensation package and they picked the
people with the closest ties to Musk to
put in the working group. And there were
all these facts about how he interfered
with committee's deliberations and they
just deferred to him. So given that the
court felt that like they didn't put
actual independent decision makers at
the board level. So then they took it to
the shareholders and they did a
shareholder vote. But there was not full
disclosure in the proxy statement. the
shareholders were not fully informed and
for obvious reasons shareholders can't
cleanse anything unless they have full
information. So left with a situation
where the board was not independent of
Musk and the shareholders were not fully
informed. That's why the court felt well
I have to evaluate the pay package
because no independent decision maker
was put in the mix and then from there
she decided it was too much. So, this
might be a tough question to ask, but
since we're talking, you know, this
discussion or debate centers on
shareholder liability as you laid out,
do we have any research that actually
tells us what happens to share prices
and stocks when a company signals that
it's going to move away from Delaware or
when it actually does it? We have
incredibly mixed evidence. The fact is
that scholars have been fighting about
this forever whether it makes a
difference and some have found that
maybe it's beneficial depending on the
type of company. Like I mean Delaware is
expensive. I mean the the whole point of
Delaware having this chartering business
is that's how the state funds itself. It
gets 25% of its revenues from
incorporation fees. No other state does
anything like that. So for smaller
companies with less resources, it can be
beneficial to move away from Delaware.
But mostly this is something where
different scholars will come up with
different things. We just don't know for
sure. And that's probably because
Delaware has been dominating for so
long, at least for public companies,
that it's hard to tell if there's a
serious movement away. Now we'll know.
>> It's interesting. So let's talk about
the allure of say reinccorporating in
Texas. You know, I could see just sort
of for vibes and vague ideological
things. Elon wants to go to Texas. I'm
not surprised. and they're probably the
politicians or yeah, Elon, come on down.
The shareholders are like, "We're going
to get get away from those blue states
that impose communism on you by not
letting you get your billion dollar pay
package or whatever." All that being
said, the goal it seems to me or why
people like Delaware is right this idea
of balance because while there may be an
Elon Musk cult that loves to hand him
money and not every shareholder wants to
have that relationship with their CEO
where they're just forking over a lot of
money. And so it seems to me that okay,
maybe Texas is a good fit for Elon and
his shareholders, but that's still in
many cases some sort of court system
that imposes maintains a balance of
power between the CEO, the board, and
the outside shareholders is still what's
going to be desirable for most
companies.
>> Yeah. So this is a complicated question.
Um, that is exactly how Delaware has
sold itself. That essentially that it
maintained a balance that it mostly gave
boards incredible amounts of flexibility
and incredible amounts of difference.
But ultimately there was um some basic
floor of protections for shareholders.
The issue well there are twofold issues.
The first is that ultimately corporate
managers are the ones who make decisions
about where to incorporate when they do
a startup. I mean once you're actually
publicly traded, if you want to move,
you need a shareholder vote. But before
then you can pick any company you want
to. And even if you need a shareholder
vote once you're publicly traded, as we
saw with Tesla, if you're a Meta or
where you have a controlling
shareholder, the shareholder votes
really easy. It's just what the
controlling shareholder wants. So moving
is not hard. And so the only reason
essentially that you wouldn't do it is
if you really thought you were going to
pay a price with shareholders. It's not
clear how much of a price shareholders
are going to inflict for being in a
state with fewer protections. So the
theory has always been the cost of
capital will be higher if you're in a
state with fewer protections. But it's
not clear how much that plays in. As you
just asked, like is there really a
shareholder value price for moving to a
different state? It's not clear
shareholders really have the power to
push back and Delaware also seeing this
move weakened a lot of the shareholder
protections that led to verdicts like
the Musk pay package case. So now we
really don't know if there's a
difference.
[Music]
Why would a minority shareholder
actually approve to move to a
jurisdiction where ostensibly they have
fewer rights? Because remember 90% of
this is about shareholder litigation.
There may be a or and conflict
transactions and suing over conflict
transactions. That is most of what this
fight is about. It's not the only thing
it's most of it. There is a huge debate
about whether shareholder litigation is
in fact the best way to handle this
problem. I mean there are all kinds of
concerns about strike suits. There are
concerns that, you know, that this is
just lawyer driven litigation. In the
Tornetta case, the Elon Musk pay
package. Remember, the shareholder there
held nine shares, literally nine shares
of Tesla stock. So, there's a real
question about whether shareholder
litigation is in fact a game that's
worth the candle. Unquestionably, there
are real problematic transactions and
shareholder litigation can win very huge
payouts for shareholders, but usually
those payouts come from the insurance
that the company itself paid for in
these huge settlements. And whether or
not that ultimately is the best way to
handle a conflict transaction situation
is is a very debated question. So
shareholders may very well think they
can move to a jurisdiction with fewer
protections on a theory that ultimately
less litigation is better for the
company.
>> It is a very strange situation because
essentially again you have this
situation in which the shareholders were
upset at the state for not allowing more
shareholder money to go into the pocket
of one individual person. That's a very
strange situation etc. Shareholder
lawsuits always strike me as a little
bit interesting field in general. I
remember back 25 years ago when I
sometimes used to buy and trade
individual stocks and a stock would miss
earnings and then suddenly you get an
email it's like this company is filing
suit. It's like why do I want to take a
part in a lawsuit against this company
that I am a co-owner of. Does this
actually benefit me or does this benefit
anyone other than the lawyer? I've never
been totally clear on that either. Just
in general even setting aside sort of
these conflict questions.
>> Yeah. I mean that's it's a very debated
question but for most of these suits I
mean there is a difference between a
suit for fraud under the federal
securities laws and a state law suit for
breach of fiduciary duty which is what
Delaware handles and there I mean when
there's a lawsuit like that any payment
is supposed to come from the directors
to the shareholders or to the company.
So that's the that's the theoretical
monetary benefit but directors usually
don't pay out of pocket. They've got
insurance. So if they pay, it's the
insurance. And guess who pays for the
insurance? The corporation does.
>> Now you're going to think about
shareholder lawsuits differently, Joe.
>> Or just a Yeah, I still don't. Anyway,
>> okay, keep going.
>> All right, so you touched on this
earlier, but Delaware isn't exactly
standing still while it sees companies
move elsewhere. Is this just going to
result in a sort of race to the bottom
in terms of shareholder rights where
states are just like, well, if you drop
your standards or if you alter the
balance here, I'm going to do the same
thing and everyone just kind of races to
the bottom.
>> I think that's what we're absolutely
seeing. I mean, Nevada and Texas are
essentially selling their law as
creating barriers to shareholder
lawsuits. And that's what Delaware did.
It changed its law to put up more
barriers. Now, it did so more subtly,
which is exactly why I think they're
still like this race because Delaware
didn't want to like openly say, "No,
that's it. We're just barring
shareholder lawsuits." So, they wrote a
lot of words and they're complex words,
but ultimately they they all come out to
the same thing. All three states have
made it much much harder, if not
virtually impossible, for anything but
in the most fraudulent circumstances
shareholders to bring claims. So, I
think we're at that race. We're watching
it right now. I could understand why a
public company board or a public company
would say okay we want to be in a
jurisdiction where it's much harder for
shareholders to bring lawsuits etc. Is
the calculus different depending on the
maturity of the company? And could you
say like an early stage startup? Like I
said, I've known people in the startup
space first, one of the first things
they do is incorporate in Delaware. In
those situations, maybe from the legal
perspective, did the VCs own the company
in a more deep way than public company
shareholders do? Even though nominally
they're all just shareholders and
there's a separate board.
>> Yes. And a shareholder litigation, this
kind of shareholder litigation is
extremely rare in VC back or smaller
companies. And and that's because who
the shareholders are. I mean, the
shareholders are largely insiders or
friends of VC. They don't want to anger
them. They may have signed arbitration
agreements that would prevent any kind
of lawsuit anyway. So, this issue of
litigation is much more of a public
company problem. That said, there were
some issues that were really bugging the
startup community that Delaware fixed as
well. For example, a lot of startups
like to have shareholder agreements
where one shareholder is given
essentially governance rights, not
because they're a shareholder and they
can vote their shares, but because they
have a contractual right to say, "Board,
you're not allowed to merge unless I
approve. Board, you're not allowed to
take on debt unless I approve." And
Delaware a couple years ago, a court
decision, I think very correctly under
Delaware law at the time, said, "Well,
you can't do that in a corporation. The
board has to run the company. You can't
just hand over governance rights to a
shareholder by saying, "Well, here's
your contract. You get to approve all
board decisions." That really scared the
VC community. And Delaware reacted
immediately by authorizing those kinds
of shareholder agreements.
>> Tracy, I think there's going to be some
very interesting questions of corporate
governance that come up. You know, some
of these episodes that we've discussed
where AI startups the company gets aqua
hired and not all the value gets accured
to shareholders or different class of
shareholders depending on what employee
are. I bet there will be some very
interesting corporate governance law
that comes out of this
>> for sure. And you know there's going to
be some state that tries to pitch itself
as like the place to incorporate AI
startups.
>> An AI start. Yeah.
>> Okay. So, speaking of startups, if Joe
and I were going to incorporate and
become OddLots, I guess we'd be an LLC.
Maybe not LLC.
>> Yeah, probably would be.
>> Okay. Oddlots LLC, and you were our
lawyer, our hypothetical lawyer giving
us legal advice.
>> Hypothetical.
>> What would you advise us to do here?
Where should we incorporate?
>> Well, so first of all, an LLC is not a
corporation. So, I just want to You
would not be incorporating. You would be
organizing an LLC. But actually I would
tell you not to go to Delaware uh Nevada
or or Texas because te uh Delaware
dominates in public companies and VC
backed companies like professionalized
startups but it doesn't dominate in
small like you know your average family
business your average local business it
does not dominate there at all and its
law is not designed for that. So if you
I mean you guys are professionals but
you know in a small relationshipbacked
company Delaware law is in in some ways
too ruthless the other states have a lot
more protections for essentially
non-awyer familyish friendish businesses
that might be more appropriate.
>> Well I don't know we might it might be
more
>> it might be a professional operation. I
just have one more question. How rare is
the US for having this patchwork of
corporate systems? Like if we went to
another country, is there jurisdiction
shopping the same way?
>> No. Well, see, understand we're like 50
different countries. In Europe, it's
like, you know, so so Europe, you used
to be that you couldn't do what we do in
the United States where you incorporate
in Delaware, but all your business
operations are somewhere else. It used
to be in Europe that essentially it was
but as country by country. If you had
your headquarters in a country, you were
supposed to organize in that country and
you couldn't mix and match. Europe
changed the law, but it's still so that
you could theoretically jurisdiction
shop among European countries. You know,
organ have your headquarters and all
your operations in one place and
organize in another place, another
country. But they don't they don't
really have that norm. It's just viewed
as sort of weird. So for them, where
your operations are are largely going to
be with the law, the corporate law that
governs your entity.
>> Is there transnational jurisdiction
shopping? Could you get, you know, like
a foreign company that wants to
incorporate in the US?
>> Well, yes, but you it's much more likely
that a US company wants to incorporate
outside the country in Ireland or
something.
>> Yeah. So for other kinds of, you know, t
that used to be a big deal for tax
reasons and so forth.
>> All right, Ann Lipton, thank you so much
for coming on Odd Thoughts. really
appreciate it. That was great. Thank you
for having me.
[Music]
>> Joe, that was so interesting. I really I
think business journalism in general or
financial journalism doesn't cover legal
stuff enough. Well, Matt Lavine has
proved it because there's a huge demand
for his newsletter precisely because
he's one of the few destinations that
actually talks about the chancery and
all this stuff. But to your point, this
proves the point.
>> He's the exception that proves the
entire point
>> and accounting as well, too.
>> And insurance.
>> Okay. Wait, I'm not going to just
criticize our colleagues in financial
journalism. No, that was fascinating.
>> I do find the whole race to the bottom
idea a little bit concerning for obvious
reasons. And I guess like it's sort of
that network effect that you were
discussing earlier, but once the the
ball gets rolling in that direction, it
just seems really hard to stop.
>> It's just I agree and I think this is
something very the sheer influence that
Elon has and all the people who look to
him and see him as the model is very
interesting. On the other hand, you
know, there are not many CEOs out there
for whom the cult is so strong that
people thirst to give him money. And so
the question of whether shareholders of
other companies want to be incorporated
in states, whether they would actually,
unlike the current research, inflict
some sort of cost of capital penalty for
non-D Delaware incorporated states is
going to be an interesting question. But
the ball is rolling. that's going to be
so interesting once the sample size gets
bigger and you can see like the actual
impact on stock prices. So, I take your
point, but there are shareholders who
potentially would say, well, if a
company doesn't have to deal with a
lawsuit from like a shareholder who has
>> nine nine shares,
>> nine shares. Maybe that's a good thing
and that's like a tradeoff worth making.
>> Yeah, I don't know. I mean, I nine
shares and he had this pay package.
Seems like he signed a deal. I'd be so
anno Could you imagine? Could you
imagine how annoyed you would be if your
pay package got cancelceled because of
some shareholder with nine shares? I
can't I
>> my pay package of millions. I would be
annoyed.
>> No, it doesn't matter how rich I am. I
would cannot imagine my fury. It I would
be the richest person in the world. I
would be so annoyed by that.
>> Okay, so now that we've annoyed Joe,
shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> Okay, this has been another episode of
the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Aloway
>> and I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our producers
Kerman Rodriguez at Kerman Armano
Bennett at Dashbot and Kalebrooks at
Kalebrooks. For more OddLotss content,
go to bloomberg.com/odlotss
where we have a daily newsletter and all
of our episodes. And you can chat about
all of these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
And if you enjoy OddLotss, if you like
it when we dig into legalities in the US
legal system, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to
all of our episodes absolutely adree.
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
Yeah.
[Music]